Invariably, you will land on a project where you don't know much about what's involved.
It's completely okay to say, "You know,
I have not the slightest idea to solve this problem."
This is very normal and it is normal for every single person.
I remember still just starting full-time work and realizing,
wow, I'm not sure I know how to work with big code bases here.
I don't know this language and it's frightening and there's a lot you don't know.
Find a little nugget you can take on and take it from there.
There's a lot of times you're going to run into areas where you just,
you don't know what to do and you feel like you can't make it all come together.
And the most important thing is to not get caught up in that.
Sometimes the best thing you can do is actually just take a little time off of a problem
and then circle back a little bit later when you
have a fresher mind and then it will be easy.
Imposter syndrome is the feeling that you're a
fake and somehow you snuck in and you don't deserve to be where you are.
There are so many times at work where I get projects to
work on and internally I feel like there's no way I can do this,
I'm totally going to fail at it.
The only person expecting me to fail is myself.
And so if I can get over that,
I can gain more confidence and do anything that I want to do.
You have just asked me to code up something or to fix a bug,
I don't even know where to begin.
The best people I know learned to live with uncertainty, fear,
doubt, confusion and say and they just plowed right ahead.
Failure it's going to happen if you take risks,
and taking risks is important to succeed.
I have a few tips on how to cope with that.
Number one, is try to see the silver lining of failure.
Number two, is I think preparing is really important.
It will help you a lot in
taking on risks that are more manageable and being able to succeed more often.
I think it's absolutely vital that when you go into
building something you accept that sometimes you're going to be wrong.
If I had an opportunity to sort of go back in time and
tell a younger version of myself like just say I was getting started,
what should I do?
I honestly I think the main thing would be to
experiment more and just always try and be learning new things.
You don't have to have all of the knowledge right now,
but just realize that you can always learn it,
and the whole coding process is a learning process.
So if you're in a class and it's been a while and you made progress,
first of all be proud of that progress.
And you find yourself now feeling a little stuck, it's okay.
Being overwhelmed is not a bad thing.
That's my first advice.
It means there's a lot of information coming your
way and you're so lucky that that is the case.